Well, today we have
the very great privilege to get acquainted
with five faithful Christian women
who share something unique.
Each one was married
to a member of the Governing Body
who has now gone on
to his heavenly reward.
There are nine such dear,
faithful sisters with us at Bethel.
Sisters Lucille Henschel,
Audrey Hyde, Margareta Klein,
and Charlotte Schroeder could not be
with us today for this interview,
but we treasure
their faithful example as well.
Now, these sisters
had a very demanding schedule
while supporting
their husbands in their work.
But what were some
of the blessings that they enjoyed?
Let’s find out.
So let’s begin
with Sister Sydney Barber.
Sister Barber, could you tell us how you
began in the full-time ministry?
Well, I was blessed to have parents
who were faithful and diligent,
and they raised me with the idea
that full-time service was to be my career.
However, when I got out of school,
I was offered a pretty good job
that I really enjoyed.
I took it and then thought about
what reasons could I give to Jehovah
why I was working full-time
and not pioneering.
Well, of course,
I couldn’t come up with any reasons.
And so I knew I had to quit this job,
which I did.
And five years later,
I was invited to Gilead,
and that’s where I met my husband.
All right, so we understand
it was in 1956
that you married Brother Carey Barber.
Can you tell us a little bit about some
of his outstanding qualities?
Well, the first thing
that attracted me to him
was that he already had a long history
in the full-time service.
He had gone to Bethel in 1923,
some 30 years before that.
So I knew if I was going to marry,
I had to marry someone
with the same goal of full-time service.
And, then, he was easygoing;
he didn’t get easily excited
or upset about things.
He had a marvelous sense of humor.
And all of this helped me a great deal
because the very day
after we were married,
we started in the circuit work.
And then for the next 22 years,
I lived out of a suitcase
—lived in the homes of the brothers
and moved every week.
Wonderful.
Wow!
That sounds like a demanding schedule,
Sister Barber.
But, of course, there were blessings.
What were some of those?
Oh, there were many blessings,
although at times I did feel
very sorry for myself.
But the blessings and the happiness
—the joys—
far outweighed any difficulties.
One of the joys was
to find interested people in the service,
and then find years later
that whole extended families
had come into the truth
from that person that I’d contacted.
Then when we came to Bethel,
we did more international travel.
Now, often we went
to maybe an exotic country,
but we only saw the road from the airport
to the branch and back again.
And we didn’t see the tourist attractions
that most people would go to see.
But we did see “the desirable things,”
‘the precious things of the nations,’
and that is Jehovah’s people.
It was such a thrill to go
to a country like Myanmar
and there meet, perhaps,
sisters from the Chin Hills
—little sisters that had learned the truth
back in their own language,
way out in the sticks,
you might say—
or to go to the Andes
and meet a little Quechua-speaking brother
and to know that
these are part of our family
and that they’re worshipping Jehovah.
It’s always been dear to my heart.
Very nice.
Well, now, Sister Barber,
as you look back,
what is it that you especially treasure?
Well, I’m very thankful that I was married
to one of Christ’s brothers.
Just to hear his expressions
on spiritual matters
and to hear his appreciation
for his service to Jehovah.
He was a humble man,
and he didn’t speak publicly
about being one of the anointed;
but privately he expressed
great awe of that calling
and great appreciation for it.
So I’m very thankful that I was able
to have 51 years of marriage with him.
Thank you so much, Sister Barber.
Well, next on our program
is dear Sister Melba Barry.
Sister Barry,
we’d like to know a little bit
about how you
came into the truth
and how you started
full-time service, please.
Well, I’m an Australian lassie,
born and raised in Australia.
Way down there, in 1935,
my mother accepted the truth,
and the brother was going
from door to door when he met her.
Being the oldest of three girls,
I happened to be the only one
that showed any interest
and accepted the truth,
and I was baptized in 1939.
But in the small local congregation
where I served,
I was appointed as the company servant,
since no qualified brothers were available.
Brothers were assigned from Bethel
to give talks in the congregation.
And so one brother came
to the congregation
for such an assignment,
and when he returned to Bethel,
he told his buddy
Lloyd Barry to come out
to the congregation to give a talk
and to look me over.
Eventually, he came.
Meanwhile, I applied to be a pioneer
but was accepted to Bethel
in Sydney in September 1939.
So I began my 72 years
of full-time service.
Beautiful.
Well, then in 1942, you married
that brother who came to check you out.
What were some of his
outstanding qualities, Sister Barry?
Well, he truly loved Jehovah
and the brothers.
He was serious.
He had a kind
and courageous spiritual manner.
I thought a spiritual giant,
since I was such
an immature person at that time.
And I thought I needed someone
to help me get through Armageddon.
It was so close at that time.
And Lloyd was a very decisive person,
and when he learned the truth
in his teenage years,
he came to appreciate that serving Jehovah
is a course to lifelong success.
And so he began full-time service
to Jehovah in January 1939.
He made it the center of his life.
I liked that about him and,
of course,
he was handsome;
he was the best!
Now, Sister Barry, of course,
you had this same very demanding schedule,
but what were some of the blessings?
A Christian wife must be
in submission to her husband.
And when he’s busy in theocratic activities,
she also has to be flexible.
For example, we were called
to the 11th class of Gilead in 1948
and were assigned to Japan.
During our very first month in Japan,
Lloyd and I were assigned
to separate congregations
in opposite parts of the city of Kobe.
We had so few publishers
that we all spread out,
each going our separate ways
to get the territory worked.
When we arrived, there were
just three Japanese Witnesses
in the whole country,
our language was very limited,
and hardly anyone understood English.
But Jehovah blessed our efforts.
In fact, one woman I met
on my first day preaching,
she accepted the truth
and served Jehovah faithfully
for 50 years as a pioneer.
But in time,
more missionaries came to help,
and in about nine years,
we had 1,000 publishers or so.
In 1975,
we were up to 33,000 publishers,
but in 1995,
over 200,000.
That was a rich blessing.
A wonderful blessing.
Well, Sister Barry,
as you look back,
is there a memory
that you especially treasure?
Yes, there is one
that touched me very much.
For the last 24 years of his life,
Lloyd was used extensively
for conventions and zone work.
And in that time,
we traveled together to some 80 countries.
One highlight that I especially treasure
is that of the district convention
in Cuba in 1998.
After each talk, the dear brothers
and sisters actually all stood up
and gave each speaker a standing ovation
—clapping their hands
vigorously over their heads.
Such happiness and gratitude
and joy for Jehovah’s provisions
left a very lasting impression on me,
and I’ll never forget it.
So over the years, we could see
how Jehovah blessed us in full-time service
and we found much joy in that.
So it has been a treasure
and a great privilege
to have lived a life of nearly 60 years
with such a devoted brother
and a faithful servant of Jehovah
and another treasure and privilege
to continue serving Jehovah
in my advanced age.
I keep trying with Jehovah’s help.
I think you’re succeeding, Sister Barry.
Thank you so much.
Next, we have the privilege
to interview Sister Melita Jaracz.
Sister Jaracz, we understand
that you’re from Canada.
So please tell us
about your early days in the truth there.
Well, I was six years old
when my parents learned the truth
after they read the booklet
Where Are the Dead?
Reading that booklet was all
that it took my mother and dad
to learn the truth
about what happened to their first son,
who had died in the hospital.
And my relatives were fiercely opposed
to my parents becoming Jehovah’s Witnesses.
However, they did not waver.
We left Saskatchewan
to go to British Columbia.
And that was when us children,
we had the wonderful opportunity
to participate in the meetings in English
and also go out in service
and comment at the meetings
—making comments at the meetings.
But all of a sudden, no meetings
and no service
—house-to-house work.
The ban came on,
and we were still young.
So immediately,
announcements were made,
“We’re going to go from door to door,”
and they paused,
and they said,
“but only with the Bible.”
With us children,
that was good for us.
Us young people learned to use
the Bible from door to door.
And that was when I really was convinced
that I wanted to become a pioneer.
Fascinating.
Well, then in 1956,
you married Brother Theodore Jaracz.
What were some
of his outstanding qualities, Sister Jaracz?
Well, he was 13 when he started
to study the Bible with the family,
but the family didn’t want
to continue, so he did.
And none of them ever came into the truth
—of his family.
However, he started pioneering
when he was 17;
at 20, he became a special pioneer;
at 20, he went to Gilead
—was invited to go to Gilead;
and he was in the traveling work
when he was 21.
I was hearing a lot about this Ted Jaracz.
So he had a fine reputation.
It didn’t take me long
to appreciate that his goals
involved serving Jehovah whole-souled,
and that was my goal.
As we got to know each other,
I learned that Brother Jaracz
was very dedicated and serious
in his devotion to serve Jehovah.
And I appreciated these things,
and I found out that he was very serious
in his devotion, very kind, friendly.
Brothers seemed to be very friendly
with him and he with them,
and he became friendly with me.
I rather appreciated that.
Well, Sister Jaracz . . .
I was very glad to become his wife.
Very good.
Well, now, you had
this very, very busy schedule too,
but what were the blessings?
Well, eight weeks after we were married,
Brother Knorr assigned us
to the traveling work,
starting in Missouri and Arkansas.
It was a good thing I was a country girl.
I knew what an outhouse was,
and we had quite a few of those.
However, for the next 19 years,
we lived with friends
in different homes each week, of course.
And it was sometimes a little rough,
but the discomforts weren’t that bad.
But we had such wonderful experiences
in the ministry
that it made up for everything.
And my husband, in 1974,
was invited to become
a member of the Governing Body,
and so we were going to live in Bethel.
That was my first home after 19 years,
and I love it.
Of course, my husband
had many demanding schedules,
but we were always together
for morning worship, lunch, and dinner.
And since he often had to work overtime,
I had much to do as far as
my spirituality at home
and as well as duties that I had to perform.
I kept busy with my spiritual things.
But we always had time together,
and I appreciated that.
In fact, 54 and a half years
—I’m very grateful for.
Beautiful.
So, Sister Jaracz, now as you
look back through all those years,
what is it that you especially treasure?
Well, I treasure those 54 and a half years
for the reason that we
spent it together serving our living God.
It was a blessing to take care of
one of Jehovah’s sons by being a wife to him.
And, of course, it took
a “power beyond what is normal”
to see that I met
his needs and fulfilled them.
I also treasure that I had the privilege
of going with my husband on many zone visits
and to see the joy that it brought him
to serve our brothers in many lands,
especially in the lands under ban
—like, for instance,
Russia, Ukraine, and Poland.
Each of these countries was like home to us;
we were always in a family.
We just went from the airport
to the the branch or wherever,
and we enjoyed having
that association together.
So these memories bring me
much happiness and contentment now.
And I’m grateful to Jehovah
for them and thank him
that he still gives me
“the power beyond what is normal”
to continue to serve here in Bethel
and do what I can that I’m assigned to.
Thank you so much, Sister Jaracz.
Well, next on our program,
we have Sister Edith Suiter.
And, Sister Suiter,
we’d like to know
how you got started
in the full-time ministry, please.
Well, I was raised in the truth,
and my parents always took us
to all the meetings and the conventions.
And my father always talked to us
about the truth at the supper table,
and we had to be there.
And as we grew older, we were out
in service every Saturday and Sunday,
but service was not easy then
because the war was on
and mobs would form.
And they would run us out of town,
but they never hurt us.
I think they were more afraid than we were.
And at the convention in 1946,
pioneering was stressed,
and that’s when I decided,
“That’s what I want to do.”
So I started pioneering October 1946.
Now, Sister Suiter,
we understand that it was 1956
when you married Brother Grant Suiter.
Can you tell us about some
of his outstanding qualities?
Well, he was a very kind, caring person.
And he was very generous
—always wanting to help someone in need.
And he began full-time service in 1928.
He was a very hard worker;
he was very loyal to Jehovah
and His organization.
And he really loved Bethel, as I do.
And he never complained, and he, too,
he had a good sense of humor also.
He was very serious
about his assignments at Bethel.
Well, now you had this demanding schedule
as well as the other sisters.
What were the blessings that you enjoyed?
Well, we had many blessings;
I had many blessings, of course.
And I especially enjoyed traveling
with my husband to different branches
and to work in the branches
with the sisters there
and see how they did the work
differently in other countries.
And then in the ministry,
it was a great joy to me to go out
in the ministry with the missionaries
and see how they did the work.
And I really appreciated
the work my husband was doing;
it was for Jehovah.
And when he was very busy,
I would find things to do
that I never had time to do
because of the busy schedule
that he had and I had.
And that kept me very busy too.
So also, we found—
But he did find time for me too,
and I really appreciated that.
That’s very touching.
Sister Suiter, is there a memory
that you particularly treasure?
Oh, yes!
I really enjoyed this one:
Grant was scheduled to give a talk
at the Cadiz Prison in Spain,
where 100 brothers were incarcerated
for their neutrality,
but the officials said no.
But we got there two days early,
and the brothers said,
“Well, let’s try it.”
So we went into the prison as visitors,
and the brothers had discovered
in their workshop
an unused door
that led into their dormitory.
It was hidden behind wallpaper.
So the brothers decided
to camouflage the door completely
by covering it
with a backless cupboard.
Thus, you could step
into this cupboard door,
open the door behind,
and enter the dormitory.
And once we were in the prison,
we were invited to visit the workshop.
And in this workshop, we stepped
into the cupboard and through the door.
And here, there were 100 brothers
waiting to see him.
So he was able to give the talk to them.
They were so excited to have
a member of the Governing Body
visit them in prison.
It was so heartwarming,
so exciting.
Well, you know,
my life in full-time service
has been a very happy one,
even though there were hardships
and there were also challenges.
And I appreciate so much the privilege
of having served at Bethel
with my husband.
And I still love and I’m happy
to be at Bethel serving Jehovah.
Thank you so much, Sister Suiter.
So now we have the pleasure
to get acquainted with Sister Marina Sydlik.
And, Sister Sydlik, would you tell us
about how you got started
in the full-time service?
Well, my parents started studying
the Bible in the mid-’50’s,
and my mom gave my sister
and me our first few studies
in the “Let God Be True” book
in the kitchen/dining room of our home.
My first day in field service
was when I was ten years old,
on the face of the anointed brother
that was taking us out.
He was a special pioneer,
and it soon became evident to me
that the happiest people
are those in the full-time work.
In time, my dad, my sister,
and I were all baptized.
And about ten years after
our first initial contact with the truth,
Dan Sydlik started visiting our family.
And it was due to long conversations
around our dinner table during his visits
that my mom saw the beauty of the truth
and began making it her own.
I pioneered in later teenage years
without a partner,
which meant that after a good call
there was no one to share the joys with
except Jehovah, of course.
And so my relationship with Jehovah
really blossomed during that time.
I have some nice memories
from London Bethel,
where I waited through
the immigration process to come to the U.S.
I sat at Brother and Sister Barr’s table,
and my London Bethel roommate,
Joey Orram, and I have kept up
our friendship to this day.
We still have a little phone call
each Saturday morning
before I leave for field service.
That’s wonderful!
Well, we understand, now, in 1970,
you married Brother Daniel Sydlik.
Can you tell us some
of his outstanding qualities?
Well, Dan was known
for his genuine love of people,
his great love of Jehovah and the truth,
and his innate love of life.
That combination really gave me
a wonderful life to live with him,
and I have many memories,
of course, from it.
But some of the memories
that I treasure are
our conversations
after the supper meal.
Sometimes we’d sit and talk
about a Bible topic,
and it’s those spiritual conversations
that I miss to this day.
It’s understandable.
Now, of course,
you had a demanding schedule,
but there were blessings.
What were those, Sister Sydlik?
Yes, the schedule was demanding,
and for a rather reticent person like myself,
I found the crowds
and the attention overwhelming.
But the wonderful friendships we made
with some brothers and sisters
around the world
are what I treasure to this day.
Now when I think of a country
like France or Poland or China,
it’s not the topography
of the country that comes to mind
but the faces of the dear brothers there.
For example,
in Poland,
we went there when it was still under ban
and we visited the brothers in their homes.
But, then, years later to go back
and see those same brothers
in their beautiful new branch
and Assembly Halls,
well, I was just so happy for them.
Indeed!
Well, now, as you look back,
Sister Sydlik, at this rich life,
is there a memory
that you particularly treasure
that you’d like to share with us?
Well, this may be
an unusual memory to treasure,
but recalling it now
may help some other sisters.
It was when Dan was in hospital
—one of those many days when I was trying
to help him with something—
and he began grumbling,
almost fighting me.
So I just said:
“Babe, I know this has been terribly hard,
“and you’ve been so brave,
and you’ve endured so much already.
But just, please,
hang in there a bit longer.”
And immediately he softened.
He stopped resisting me.
He never resisted me like that again.
He just needed that word
of commendation
and, you know,
just a little bit of kindness like that,
approval like that.
Sisters often give compliments
to other sisters and receive compliments.
And it’s just
a little pleasant moment in the day.
It buoys us up;
it’s a little something we share.
But that’s not the way things
work among brothers.
And it may seem that husbands
who give talks
and travel for the Society
get enough compliments and praise,
but that praise
is of very limited value to a husband
compared to a word of approval from his wife
—a word of commendation from his wife.
And it’s just as Paul said
about a married man,
how he’s anxious
to “gain the approval of his wife.”
And so without commendation from a wife,
a husband is missing a little moment
of being buoyed up, of being appreciated.
It’s a simple gift a wife
can give her husband.
And as we know from James’ words:
‘Every good gift and every perfect present
comes from above,
from the Father of celestial lights.’
Yes. Thank you so much, Sister Sydlik,
for sharing that with us.
Well, how heartwarming
to learn how each of you
unselfishly and lovingly supported
your husbands in Jehovah’s service
and how richly
you were blessed for doing so.
Your fine example
as faithful Christian women
is a gift to all of us,
and we thank you so much
for sharing
your beautiful memories with us today.